
Cartlanta
The City of Atlanta has started recycling citywide! Or residential solid waste customers not have a 96-gallon recycling cart allowing for more recyclables to be collected. The citywide distribution of carts will decrease public waste by 90% by the year 2020.

Public Works
Mission
Services maintain and improve the city through strong community partnerships, clear policies, and strong goals leading to increased public safety, health, and wellness for the citizens of Atlanta.

Office of Solid Waste Services
Responsible for the collection and disposal management of solid waste within the City of Atlanta. Reduces waste and provides recycling, solid waste management and study; education and enforcement; street sweeping and cleaning, dead animal removal, enforcing the Keep Atlanta Beautiful program, and assisting with city-wide operations.

The Atlanta Police Department
With 2000 sworn officers, the Police Department is the largest law enforcement agency in the State of Georgia. The Department relies heavily upon community input and group problem-solving strategies. Through involving the community in public safety, the department addresses 1) youth-related crime, 2) domestic violence, 3) the view of crime in Atlanta

Mission Statement
The mission of the Atlanta Police Department is to create a safer Atlanta by decreasing crime, make certain the safety of our citizens and building trust in partnership with or community.

Organizational Structure
Police services are coordinated through three departments and one bureau of the Atlanta Police Department. Routine services include uniform patrol, criminal investigations, technical and administrative support services, and the regulation of vehicles for hire.
Emergency police response is available around the clock located throughout the City and at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. 


Fire Department
Who We Are

Atlanta Fire Rescue is a modern, all-hazards fire department. It has four departments of labor: Offices of the Chief of Staff, Support Services, Field Operations and Airport Operations. 

Department staff operates out of 35 fire stations. There are over 1,000 employees serving an area of 132 square miles within the city limits of Atlanta.

The department also provides mutual aid to neighboring cities and counties upon request.

In 2012, the department responded to 98,890 calls, including fire, medical emergency and non emergency calls.

Vision
Strives for excellence in emergency preparedness and response. 

Mission
Provides prompt quality service that promote safety, security, enhances sustainability, and enriches the quality of life.

Core Values
Integrity, Competence, Excellence, Honesty, Predictability, Accountability, and Ism-free


Emergency Medical Services
Who We Are

The Emergency Medical Services Section provides services mandated by the Official Code of Georgia Annotated Title 31, Chapter 11,  the Georgia Department of Public Health Rules and Regulations Chapter 511-9-2 to license,
re-license, and monitor Ambulance Services, Medical First Responders, and Neonatal Transport Services.

It also approves training course curriculum and requirements for the licensure and re-licensure of Technicians and Paramedics and the re-license only of Emergency Medical Technicians - Intermediate and Cardiac Technicians.

EMS and emergency transport in Atlanta is provided by Grady EMS. They respond to about 110,000 calls annually with a max of 28 units in service during peak times.

Grady EMS provides advanced life support to any citizen or visitor to Atlanta and is one of the largest providers of pre hospital care. It operates a high performance system with units located all around the city.

